### Anakis, the ~~Velvet Tyrant~~ Tempestheart

#### Foreword:

It is only fitting that this is one of the few parchments I may fill with veritable ink, knowing it will burn. I suppose every creature needs to pour their story out somewhere and I can only hope no creature finds this window to my young soul. I am not one with enjoyable company, well, except for my irritable “master” who I might call a friend only because I have none. Do not mistake me. I can be very social, when I need to be. I avoid truly keeping the company, as most of them are only tools I wield to serve the Collector, and none of them are amicable. If you met me, you would never learn that I dream of merry dances and trustworthy camaraderie. To laugh and love like the families I observed and the stories I have read. Unfortunately, my fury still surfaces. My lies lie on the tip of my tongue ready to cleave through the masses. I try. I am trying. I have learned to direct my fury toward those who deserve it. My lies leave my cursed tongue only when necessary. I have been learning to distract more than attack. Yet, I am afraid I may not be ready. I can only hope that my misfortune is that I have not met the right creatures. Alas, one cannot ignore the axe over my head that is the Archfey. Ah, I have let myself get carried away. Let me start from the beginning.

#### The Beginning:

My first drop of fury was sourced from my abandonment. Left alone in a conservative human settlement, a five-year-old tiefling had no place to be except on the streets open to insults and bullies. I remember being mostly hungry and extremely filthy much like the other urchins. Although, when one thinks of an urchin, they would imagine a thin rat scurrying about in the underworld of a city stealing from merchants and breaking into chests. I was nothing like them. I was scurrying about like a rat, yes, but all I could steal from was garbage. I was too loud to attempt to steal from anywhere else, let alone lay my hands on a chest. Even if I did succeed, I was too recognizable. After all, I was the only one in town with two horns, a tail and a pitch-orange eye. I barely survived.

#### The Velvet Tyrant:
It all started when I met a little boy named Vex. He was only five compared to my thirteen. By this time, I had discovered my natural affinity for thaumaturgy. I was also good-very good-with my words, at least when compared to the townsfolk. In fact, I made some of them believe I was cursed. That they would face fiery retribution if I was harmed. It was true indeed, although I was not aware of it then. Vex was an easy target for a less threatening approach. He was young, very obviously impressionable and often talked of his vision for a saviour. It was easy to weave my web and cocoon him with the impression of protection and safety. Soon, he was providing me with portions of his latest steal, and I finally had a stable source of food and clothes. This is how I, in a small town, constructed the largest criminal organization in the country, with networks leading to the largest cities and the noblest families. If you are inclined to believe my words, that is. Really, I only had three underlings who stole just enough to maintain my facade. I gave them a red scarf and asked them to make a few things go missing. With the townsfolk not knowing their identity, it was easy to spread rumours of a large gang. I claimed every crime that happened in the town from pub fights to burglaries. After all, many a good deception revolves around partial truths. Add that with a few shiny fake jewelry, a fake leather armor, a belt filled with vials of “poison”, and I had all the right instruments to be the Velvet Tyrant. When I was not busy forging letters or bullying a merchant, I would be busy with unreal stories and passing bards while the urchins did the grunt work for me. My rule of fear was solidified. When before, I had faced poverty regardless of my threats, now they thought I had an army. Not many would believe a curse, but everyone is afraid for their life and their belongings. The urchins stood with me for more than 5 years. I made sure they had a roof over their heads and food in their mouths. If they got caught, I would bail them out with a few words. Even now, I do not know if I did it because I cared for them, or because I could not survive without them.

#### The Regret:

Things went too far when a soldier from the nearest city arrived to investigate the rumours of a large gang. Clearly, I wasn’t good enough to deceive the trained soldier. She quickly found her way straight to my “lair” and threatened to arrest me. For a false gang, the kids were truly loyal to me. Vex was the most loyal of them all and practically worshipped me as his hero. I did not deserve it. When the guard lunged forward to capture me, Vex rammed into her and asked me to run. I did run. I heard his scream as she grappled him. I was a coward. I ran as far as I could from the house with the book and the orb that Vex had just given me. I took cover in the nearby forest and when my heart stopped pounding, I realised my mistake. My entire life had been a mistake. I had taken advantage of those kids and one of them was in trouble. I was powerless to do anything about it. That’s when I noticed that the book was unusually warm. I opened it to see writings I could not understand. Beside them were notes in the Common tongue. It was a ritual to make a contract with either a fiend, a celestial, an Archfey or the Great Old One. My instincts told me the celestial or the Great Old One were not ones to be meddled with. I had no knowledge about the fey. A fiend, however, would be my ancestor. Deciding to go for the familiar one, I tried to follow the notes and failed a few times. The orb turned out to be useless and only served to shine in the moonlight. When I did succeed, I found myself pleading to an unseen power desperate to save a boy I’d wronged. The rest was a blur. I was dizzy. My right horn felt unusually itchy. I slept for long or short, I did not know. When I went home next, Vex was alive and well.

#### The Becoming:

I’d heard of warlocks. Many a bard sang of them. Some were good, most had questionable morals. It made sense that such a book had found its way to me. Truthfully, I was happy to have magic as it meant that I had real power. Only, I wished-wish I could change my past. Those kids were the only family I had, even though I never really did anything but order them around. Unfortunately, it was all built on falsehood.
I remember the day my terrible destiny was written. A few days after I returned, I’d been sipping ale in the backyard contemplating my future when a raven violently landed on my shoulder. It took a few tries to stay upright and nudged at its claw with its beak. Attached there was a small roll of parchment. It said, “Whisper fien. Then, paera”. The raven wouldn’t leave! I swatted it and even tried to lure it with food - nothing worked! I had no choice but to give in and say the words. When I did, a book popped into thin air and fell straight into my hands. It was pitch black with shades of grey scattered here and there. The cover looked like an illusion, almost like seeing through the surface of rippling water. On the front, was a mark: a thin golden circle with a round
leaf that had three bites taken off it. “You are now my property”, said a musical voice. I jumped and looked around searching for the source. “I’m right here, you know”. It was the raven talking, and I noticed that it had the same mark. “Well, not really. I am technically at the court listening to tiring debates. The fey just say the same boring thing every single century”. The raven pecked on my horn. “The cuff looks majestic on you, by the way”. After making that horrifying statement, it flew away with no further explanation. I quickly ran to the mirror and found that there was indeed a cuff there, with the same mark as the book. Like a farmer branding his cattle, I’d been marked by the trickster Archfey.

#### Warlocking

As if I were part of a cosmic joke, my life is being lorded over by the Archfey-the same as when I had lorded over my urchins. He calls himself the Collector, says he likes to collect rare magical artifacts and creatures. Whether I am one of his collections or whether he needs me to be his bounty hunter, I do not know. If I have come to learn anything, both through research and experience, there is really no point in questioning it. I would never get a straight answer. Even if I did, it would likely be hiding a trick or be laced with a lie. Nearly everything I have been doing since then is in his command. If it were of my own free will, it would be within the confines of his commands. I will be honest; I wasn’t completely disappointed that it wasn’t a fiend I had entered into a **cough** **slave** **cough** contract with. I would expect that a fiend’s power would enable me to burn everything in my path. In this case, I have access to spells that can be used harmlessly if intended that way. It would truly disappoint the Collector if he knew that his trick did not disappoint me as much as he’d have wanted. Except for the bloody cuff on my horn! Ah, you see, my irritation is endless, and it only gets worse over the days considering I can never really say it out loud, just in case he is watching.

In the end, he’d ordered me to leave my town. Then, he’d ordered me to talk my way into borrowing books from various libraries where I honed my arcane knowledge. I have always loved reading, and though this was a huge leap from novels, it was not insufferable. Of course, I wasn’t always left alone. Every other day, a random animal or bird would come bother me into whispering “paera” to activate the spell. Nine out of ten times, the Collector would go on about whatever goes on in his court, often without any context. I tuned him out most of the time, nodding my head along and making sounds whenever there was an appropriate pause. I must admit, his humorous puns may have rubbed on me a little bit. They’ve been playing a part in learning to control my emotions. There were a few times where he’d given me a task. Perhaps he needed me to investigate the location of an artifact, find out if some creature is lying, learn about this stone, learn about this spell- blah blah. Later, he’d given me a few cantrips and some additional spells, aside from those in the tome. I do love my tome. It lets me experiment with new cantrips every day, if not new then different combinations of them. I just hope I wouldn’t have to use them for horrible things.
Only recently, approximately a year ago, he has truly let me adventure out in the open. His appearances are also less frequent compared to before. Not that it is infrequent by normal standards. He replaced the Speak with Animals spell on the tome with an enchanted ring that I could only use three times a day. I’d mostly been asked to fetch magical artifacts or capture small beasts. I learned to use my hands better. Pick a lock or pickpocket an orb from a man’s pocket when charm wouldn’t work. Weirdly, the things I stole were merely trinkets and I had to sell them, after all that hard work. I suspect he’s training me to collect rare objects and creatures effectively, although it seems like too much pre-planning for a fey. I wouldn’t know how he plans to collect it from me.
As I write this, I am on my way to Red Larch, a town at the foot of the Summer hills, to investigate a missing delegation from Mirabar. One of them has the Collector’s mark. While I find the task as cumbersome as I usually would, the mention of a mark on another person has gotten me thinking that I may finally get some answers about what he wants from me.
