# Prologue

I am currently on the long road to Red Larch. The Collector, my Archfey patron (slave owner, to be accurate), has ordered me to locate a Mirabar diplomat who bears his mark. The same one my horn bears to declare his ownership of me: a golden circle with a round leaf that has three bites taken off it. The diplomat is supposed to be travelling as part of a delegation from Mirabar. The group of them was headed towards a town at the foot of the Sumber Hills, Red Larch. They did not make it, however, as they went missing in the hills. To find them and thus, the diplomat, I am to investigate Red Larch for their whereabouts. The travel has been weary and I write this as I sit on a cart that is in its first of a two day journey from Carleone. 

I have found myself with a group of three strangers who I’d met on my way towards Carleone. On having wine and dinner around a campfire, I’d learned about them, if only a little. There was Morgan. A human dressed ready to fight with a shied hanging over her upper arm. Her coat bore a symbol of what looked like a mining drill with the words “Arcanix, LMG” above it. She hails from Mirabar and is travelling on a mission whose details she has not yet revealed. Then there was the old elf Paelias with his staff and his holy symbol. A cleric that worships Kelemvor, the God of the Dead. At first, I’d presumed that he might be inclined to murder but he clarified that he preferred to be busy keeping the dead, well, dead than much else. He’d heard rumors of strange and unnatural events in Carleone that he was curious to investigate. He seemed to be attuned to nature and in contradiction to my own demeanour, he was more inclined to be calm and spend time quietly observing his surroundings. Then there was Erias. A half-elf monk who was travelling the same way for reasons I do not know. I must say that the group of them seem more trustworthy than most I’ve met and they have very much saved my life today. Yet, I have not revealed much of myself to them, especially given that I am not aware of their motives to join me in this journey. They might as well be here to sabotage my mission at the right moment. They seemed quite surprised when I openly revealed that I am a warlock. If I am to spend a considerable amount of time with them, I am sure they would have eventually figured it out of themselves. I’ve decided to travel with them for now, especially after what happened at Carleone. 

When I found out that the nearest town to get a good night’s rest was famous for wine, I was ecstatic. Shut in libraries for a while now, it has been long since I had the chance to sit down at a tavern listening to a bard with good wine in my hands. My dreams were crushed as soon as the nameboard of the town was visible. We could immediately see that the rumours Paelias had heard were true. The vast field that must have once been a beautiful vineyard was filled with rotten grapes and vines instead. Based on the scale of the destruction, I was quite sure that the source was magic. Simple beasts could not have ravaged a land this large. There were no Beast footprints either, only that of creatures and they were haphazard enough that they might have been from the workers. If a creature had been the source of this devastation, I’d guess that they would have preferred to use fire, and there were no sign of ashes or charred remains. I could have chosen to ignore this entire melodrama and I should have continued onto Red Larch, but I was predictably unable to resist the mystery. The others seemed to be inclined the same way. 
We decided past the rotten fields towards the settlements. For a monk, Erias unwisely gathered a few grapes and put them into his pocket. Deciding that the fields could offer nothing more than those few good grapes, we headed towards the houses. Most of the buildings looked utterly deserted except for one. It was a tavern, the only building with bright lights and signs of life in it. 

Before we entered the tavern, we noticed that the door to its basement was just outside the entrance. It was locked with a suspiciously large padlock. 
The setting inside was in contradiction with the rest of the town. While the outdoors looked as if it was in decay, the tavern air was filled with lively music played by a bard. However, the commoners sat on the tables did reflect the sorry state of the town. Their clothes looked ragged and their body, malnourished. The bard was the only one dressed comfortably and looked healthy. On the other side of the tavern was a curious hatch that was also padlocked. 

Deciding that we might as well try the popular wine while we were there, we headed towards the barmaid. Rose was suspiciously dressed in armor and had a spear laying at her hand’s reach. A ring of keys hung from her waist. Right after we made our orders, the others began to question Rose. She seemed reluctant to provide us with details and aggressively closed herself off when we probed for details. While the others conversed with her, I decided to speak to the bard hoping he might be more forthcoming. He said that he was a travelling bard and he’d been in Carleone for only a day. Aside from the weirdness of everything that we’d already observed, the only information he gave us was that he was a coward and that there was an unusually well-dressed lady who’d come by the tavern often. After thanking the bard, I decided that I might as well steal the keys from Rose and figure the rest out after. I returned to the bar and insisted that she hurry up with my drink. When she placed it on the bar, I “accidentally” toppled it over to the other side where she was standing. Acting like an extremely sorry and over-helpful stranger, I ran over to her and successfully grabbed the keys without her noticing as we bent down to clean up the mess. Rushing with the adrenaline of the moment, I failed to predict that the wine she served to replace my beer might be poisonous given the state of the vineyard. These are the moments I am glad that the Collector needs me. As I took the glass, a bee buzzed around my ear and shook me out of my daze. I placed the glass on the table and continued conversing with the others. To be honest, I was stumped on how we would go about exploring the locked away parts of the tavern unnoticed. The tavern was supposedly open 24x7.

Morgan quickly took the reins and decided to explore the basement. While Paelias and Erias remained in the tavern, she and I went out the entrance. As I watched the tavern door, she fortunately found the correct key to the basement on her first try. It was only a minute since she went inside, before I heard sounds of a struggle. It would have been audible inside the tavern, but it must not have been distinct enough for it to be noted as unusual. Paelias and Erias, aware of what we were up to, rushed to the outside as soon as they heard the commotion. The three of us entered the basement to find its floor filled with writhing rotten vines that were alive and one had its tendrils reaching out to attack Morgan. I have read the strangest things in my books, seeing them is certainly weirder than I’d imagined. I suppose I do not have the right to be surprised considering I myself am a warlock that can conjure a creepy Book of shadows out of thin air. 

We ended up having a long and tiring fight with the vines. It was not too difficult, in hindsight. On the far wall of the room was a thick wooden door with four gemstones neatly arranged above four buttons. Morgan, who seemed to be inclined to take charge more often than the rest of us, decided to see what happened when one of the buttons were pressed. When he did so, a small hidden compartment that held a huge barrel of gunpowder opened up. Obviously, we stole it. 
It took us ages to find the solution to open the wooden door. It was quite obvious that the buttons had to be pressed in a certain order, however, it took us an embarrassingly long time before we found out that we had to spell “O P E N” with the first letter of the color of the gems. I must say that this is such a lame password, so lame that nobody would bother to try it even  if they had thought of it. I suppose, it is not truly lame if it succeeds in staying locked. 
If you thought that a floor filled with alive and deadly rottenvines was as worse as it would get, you would be absolutely wrong. Behind the door was a scene none would want to witness. Pieces of hundreds of corpses were strewn about everywhere with no specific pattern around a closed sarcophagus at the center of the room. A sarcophagus surrounded by corpses drained of blood suggested that we were dealing with a vampire. I am not aware of whether vampires can control dead vines, or, maybe they subconsciously created them? 

Next to the sarcophagus was a small fancy chest. Not knowing if the room was safe to enter, I volunteered to step ahead knowing I can teleport back to the other room if any danger was present. After Morgan used Light to illuminate the room with an enchanted stone, I walked over the disgusting mulch of bodies and was about to open the chest when Morgan abruptly ushered me out before something could happen to me. People can be kind indeed. One action is not enough to sway my opinions, however. She did make sense, so I did step out the room before I opened the chest. In it laid a magical bell placed on a fancy red cushion. These were accompanied by a letter written by a Damien Tenebris that said “Use the bell to subdue the town and carry out your duties, spawn”. A vampire indeed. 
Morgan proceeded to open the sarcophagus to check if something was inside it. I found it to be a careless action and was not okay with being jump scared by a bloodthirsty vampire. Fortunately, the sarcophagus was empty and there was nothing left for us to explore in the basement. We tried to place everything in such a way as to ensure that the vampire would not find out about the intruders. 

Hoping we were discreet, we hurried back to the tavern to find out that our efforts were in vain. There stood the mysterious rich lady dressed in an elegant gown. She was evidently undead with pale skin devoid of blood and unnaturally perfect features. To her left was the bard who revealed his affinity for illusion after dispelling his disguise. 

At first, Sophia entertained us with a seemingly normal conversation. She answered some of Morgan’s questions while Tathnar, the bard insisted that he was on our side. Soon, the conversation with Sophia turned sour. She glared at us and demanded an answer for our presence in her room, the basement. The previously uninterested commoners were now posed to attack, and Rose had her spear and shield ready. 

The vampire, who identified herself as Lady Sophia Tenebris, was rambling her demands while we gawked at her not knowing what to say. We were not prepared to undo all the progress we’d made by handing over everything we’d found. I considered using the magic bell but decided against it as we’d agreed that “subdue” could mean anything. If the commoners were somehow controlled by this vampire, then I felt that we must attempt to release them. Innocents did not deserve to be punished for the wrongdoings of the rest of this world. Before I could formulate a plan, our silence broke her patience. Everybody n the room then proceeded to unleash themselves on us except for Tathnar, who true to his claim of being a coward, huddled in a corner safely far from the fight. 

I will be trying to forget this fight as much as I possibly can for the rest of my life. A commoner, a simple non-magic commoner with a simple sword, managed to incapacitate me with one single move! What nonsense! My newly found favourite, Paelias the Cleric, healed me enough to regain my compsure. I must say that we would not have succeeded this fight if not for Morgan and Erias. Morgan was undefeatable as she barely got hit and I felt like a lead-filled bag beside her glory. Erias punched like a madman, although he seemed to be fickler than me. The cleric was indispensable as he helped us survive long enough to save each other. 
Rose died first. Soon we’d managed to weaken Sophia when the commoners stopped attacking. As she was nearly incapacitated, Morgan and Paelias began to question her. Lady Sophia claimed that she was sent there by her father, Damien Tenebris, who was a member of the Cult of Howling Hatred in to collect creatures for him to feed on. We learned nothing more from her. We agreed that she should die. Paelias firmly wanted her dead as he is extremely against the existence of the undead. The others were reluctant, including me, but it is true that she deserved to be smited. Even if her circumstances did not allow her the semblance of a choice, while I understand the momentary cowardice, it is not a momentary decision to kill the number of innocent people she had killed. That makes me wonder what I would choose to do when the Archfey provides me with an order to kill innocents. 

After the deed was done, the ravage commoners immediately jumped to Sophia’s body and started eating it. I feel nauseous when I think about it. On searching the bodies, we found a mysterious key. Rose had an antique manual to growing vineyards in Carleone and a letter written by her for her son, Carmen Stouthorn, telling how much she missed him and asking him if he is ever going to leave the axe and return home. I feel guilty that we killed her, we could have knocked her down instead and understood her motivations. The others displayed the same remorse.

While we contemplated the letter, Tathnar the Bard, approached us. He said he’d owe us a favor if we helped him deliver a message to Endrith Vallervow, a shopkeeper in Red Larch that ‘Carleone is no longer viable for trade’. He also said that he was looking for a friend of his part of the Mirabar delegation, a dwarf with a lot of books called Brolden Thaw. The bard was harmless, but his trickery with illusion suggests that he cannot be trusted fully even if I am tempted to. 
